In this demo,
we'll be creating a serverless API to handle incoming HTTP requests.
That API will allow us to create, read, update,
and delete items inside of a DynamoDB table that we'll be
using to store information on pets.
Let's take a look at each of the steps we'll need to
get through this and make it happen.
To start this demo, we'll be creating a serverless pet database.
To do this, we'll need to start a new serverless project.
We'll do this by copying an example project from our demo files.
Then, we'll review the serverless.
yml configuration file and all the code for the service.
After that, we'll install the requirements for the project using npm,
and then deploy the project to AWS.
Then we'll confirm that our API endpoints are functional,
and we'll review the effects in the AWS console.
First, go ahead and download the demos.
zip file for this module,
then unzip the code and change directories into the
serverless node REST API folder.
I'm currently showing you the contents of the folder with tree,
but again, you don't need to use this for this module.
The first thing you'll want to do is open up our
configuration file for the demo, the serverless.
yml file.
This configuration file takes advantage of some parameterization
that the serverless framework allows us to do.
The first thing you'll notice is that the DynamoDB table
doesn't have a specific name like pets table.
The reason for this is because it's naming it with the parameters that
are already included in the framework configuration.
It's pulling the self:service parameter,
which means that it'll be populating the serverless node REST API value.
It's also including the stage parameters,
which will pull in the stage that this is going to be deployed in.
You'll also notice that we have a more extensive set of
permissions in the iamRoleStatement.
This is because our service will need a variety of permissions
to take every action on this DynamoDB table.
The resource itself that these permissions are granted on also uses the
same parameterization as we see above in Dynamo table.
While you won't need to make any changes to any of these values,
you can choose to rename your service if you prefer
it to be named something else.
Just keep that in mind when we're going forward in the examples.
Now let's take a look at the functions for our service.
The first function in our service is the create function.
Its handler is located in the pets directory, in a create.
js file, and it has the function name of create.
Now we'll take a close look at this when we get back to our terminal.
The events that will trigger any of these functions are HTTP events.
In this case,
that means the API Gateway will process and forward
these along to our functions.
For the create function,
you can see that the method is post directly to the pets endpoint.
This is because the post method is the expected method when
you're changing data within the database.
We see a very similar case below with the list function.
In this case, the location of the function changes slightly to the list.
js file, and the method also changes to get.
That's because we'll be getting back information without
making a change to the underlying service.
If we scroll down slightly, we can see the get function as well.
This is almost identical to the list function, as it also uses the get method.
However, it takes a specific ID, and in this case,
will allow us to pass an id value into the API Gateway,
which will be processed and look up specific within the database,
rather than returning a list of all the values within the database,
which our list function did.
Finally, we have the update and delete functions.
These do about what you'd expect.
They're both contained within the pets folder in
their respective update and delete.
js files, and the function names within those files are update and delete.
Additionally, they each have their own respective method.
In the case of the update function, it uses put,
which is the expected method when changing information in the database,
but not adding a new entry itself.
The delete function uses the delete method,
which is expected for deleting information.
And lastly,
you can also notice that both of these take a specific
id similar to the way that get did.
That's because each of them will be updating a
specific value within the database,
rather than deleting or updating the entire database as a whole.
If you scroll down a little bit, you should see the resources section.
In the resources section,
we see something similar to the examples we were looking at earlier.
We create a serverless framework resource called PetsTable,
which is an AWS DynamoDB table with a deletion policy that
allows it to keep its data even when the serverless framework
is redeploying and making changes.
It uses the same attribute model that we looked at in earlier examples,
and also has the same provision throughput.
The only difference here from the earlier part of the
module is that the table name will be reflective of the
provider and the DynamoDB table name,
which we defined slightly earlier in this configuration file. So now let's take a look at the function code within each of our function files.